[MUSIC]
Hello, and welcome back.
I'm Alex Bowers from learntoprogram.tv,
and in this video, we'll
be covering how to add comments to your
page within Python.
So, comments are a very useful tool to
use, because it
will allow you to make your page more
readable to other people.
So if you were to share your code to
somebody else for assistance, for example.
Or to show them an example of how to do
something.
Using comments can be incredibly useful in
helping them
understand what parts of code, of your
code does what.
And also, if you were to come back to a
piece
of code which you wrote, say a year in the
past.
You'd be able to understand instantly what
it was you were writing.
And if you wrote it in a less efficient
way.
You'd be able to rewrite something to do
exact same thing.
As what your comments have specified,
you'll be trying to do.
And so it helps you considerably remember
what it is you were doing, and
to help other people as well if you were
to share them, within your code.
And a comment is simply done with a
hash symbol inside a Python, so the hash
symbol.
On the Mac is Alt and then the 3 key.
On Windows, it's on the right-hand side
it's above
the Shift key, it's just around above that
area there.
And all you have to do is just put a
single hash, and then the
rest of the line is commented out,
and won't be interpreted by the Python
interpreter.
You can write anything on here, you
could write print Print Hello World, for
example.
And it won't get run.
Or it will be run, but it won't get
interpreted and it won't get output.
Whereas if the next line I do Print and I
just do Hello.
And if we run that as well you'll get
just hello, but you won't get that outline
there.
There, the commented line, there.
And you can also add comments to the end
of lines.
So, this is an output.
And, so, you can see, how if we
had something very confusing happening
within the actual script.
Then you would be able to actually comment
it easily, and have
it so that something which you might not
understand how to do
in the future, and we will go onto more
complicated code later
on within the course, which this sort of
idea is useful for.
For example, iterations and so on.
What you would find interesting you might
also find it confusing for
example, and so, if you were to comment it
you would be
able to understand it and look over it
later on, read it,
and you'd be able to learn it faster that
way as well.
So there are multiple uses for doing this
sort of practice this sort of practice
whilst coding.
Now, obviously, cuz it's not interpreted,
it is not a requirement of Python.
However, it is very good coding practice
to have comments within your code, and it
allows you to make your code more
readable, as I've explained a few minutes
ago.
So, I would recommend that you do comment
your code.
However, within this tutorial this course,
I won't be actually doing much commenting.
And that's simply cuz I'm explaining it
while I'm writing it.
So, the comments are to explain it, but if
I'm talking whilst writing, then there's
not much point in
me actually doing any commenting, because
the exact same
content is being said as what I would
write down.
So thank you for watching, and I hope you
enjoy these videos.
Just remember that coding practice is not
a
requirement, but it is very, very
beneficial if
you were to take them up quickly, because
it does make your coding life considerably
easier.
[MUSIC]